---
title: 2024-07-24
author: ["Justin"]
date: 2024-07-24T03:05:00-04:00
lastmod: 2024-07-24T18:49:56-04:00
draft: false
---

<div class="outline-1 jvc">

## Agenda {#agenda}

<div class="outline-2 jvc">

### Tasks {#tasks}

-   [ ] Chinese
-   [ ] Read
-   [X] Build

</div>

</div>

<div class="outline-1 jvc">

## Journal {#journal}

<div class="outline-2 jvc">

### Reading/Watching {#reading-watching}

<div class="outline-3 jvc">

#### [Llama 405b: Full 92 page Analysis](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tf1nooXtUHE) {#llama-405b-full-92-page-analysis}


</div>

<div class="outline-3 jvc">

#### [An interactive guide to x86-64 assembly - introduction](https://halb.it/posts/x64-introduction/) {#an-interactive-guide-to-x86-64-assembly-introduction}

<aside>

{pretty straightforward} Let's break it down!

The article titled "An Interactive Guide to x86-64 Assembly - Introduction" by Alberto Ventafridda presents an accessible overview of assembly language, particularly focusing on x86-64 architecture. It addresses the common perception that assembly is overly complex, emphasizing that understanding data movement within a program is simpler than it seems.

The guide begins by defining data as bits representing information and explains how humans visualize binary data using hexadecimal notation for clarity. It outlines the basic components of data representation, such as bytes and their names based on bit groups, including nibble, byte, word, dword, and qword.

The article dives into how text is encoded, particularly using ASCII, where each character is represented by a byte. It highlights how data can be stored either in memory (RAM) or in registers within the CPU, explaining the structure of memory as a long list of bytes and detailing the function of various registers in x86-64.

An example assembly code snippet is provided, illustrating the syntax and the use of registers, while acknowledging that the article will develop further with more detail on assembly instructions. Additional resources are mentioned for those interested in learning more about assembly language and computer architecture.

</aside>

</div>

</div>

<div class="outline-2 jvc">

### Notes {#notes}

-   Got ellama working. Had to read the underlying package docs to figure it out.
    Pretty fun. Now to use it in a way that I can pipe it to org..
    -   Notice above, as an example.
-   Made a lot of CSS changes.

</div>

</div>
